# Curriculum Vitae Specification

_Résumé Specification_

A resume standard made by engineers to assist the monotonous task of employment foraging.

__Version 1.0.0__
The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in BCP 14 RFC2119 RFC8174 when, and only when, they appear in all capitals, as shown here.

This document is licensed under The Apache License, Version 2.0.

## Introduction

The Curriculum Vitae Specification (CVS) defines a standard, language-agnostic interface to Résumés which allows both humans and computers to develop tools without access to contents. When properly defined, a tool can be developed without concern of the individual Résumés content.

An CVS definition can then be used by Résumés PDF generators, Search Engines, Role Matching Software, Job Application websites and many other use cases.

# Table of Contents

- [Definitions](#definitions)
	- [CVS Document](#cvsDocument)
- [Specification](#specification)
	- [Versions](#versions)
	- [Format](#format)
	- [Document Structure](#documentStructure)
	- [Data Types](#dataTypes)
	- [Rich Text Formatting](#richText)
	- [Relative References In URLs](#relativeReferences)
	- [Schema](#schema)
		- [CVS Object](#cvsObject)
		- [Info Object](#infoObject)
		- [Person Object](#personObject)
		- [Contact Object](#contactObject)
		- [Links Object](#linksObject)
		- [Education Object](#educationObject)
		- [Work Experience Object](#workExperienceObject)
		- [Achievements Object](#achievementsObject)
		- [Epoch Object](#epochObject)
		- [Date Object](#dateObject)

## Definitions

### <a name="cvsDocument"></a>CVS Document

A document that defines or describes a persons "course of life". A CVS definition uses and conforms to the Curriculum Vitae Specification.

## Specification

### Versions

The OpenAPI Specification is versioned using [Semantic Versioning 2.0.0](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html) (semver) and follows the semver specification.

The `major`.`minor` portion of the semver (for example `1.0`) SHALL designate the CVS feature set. Typically, .`patch` versions address errors in this document, not the feature set. Tooling which supports CVS `1.0` SHOULD be compatible with all CVS `1.0.*` versions. The patch version SHOULD NOT be considered by tooling, making no distinction between `1.0.0` and `1.0.1` for example.

Each new minor version of the Curriculum Vitae Specification SHALL allow any CVS document that is valid against any previous minor version of the Specification, within the same major version, to be updated to the new Specification version with equivalent semantics. Such an update MUST only require changing the `cvs` property to the new minor version.

For example, a valid CVS `1.0.2` document, upon changing its `cvs` property to `1.1.0`, SHALL be a valid CVS `1.1.0` document, semantically equivalent to the original CVS `1.0.2` document. New minor versions of the Curriculum Vitae Specification MUST be written to ensure this form of backward compatibility.

A CVS document compatible with CVS `1.*.*` contains a required `cvs` field which designates the semantic version of the CVS that it uses.

### Format

An CVS document that conforms to the Curriculum Vitae Specification is itself a JSON object, which may be represented either in JSON or YAML format.

For example, if a field has an array value, the JSON array representation will be used:

```json
{
   "field": [ 1, 2, 3 ]
}
```
All field names in the specification are **case sensitive**.
This includes all fields that are used as keys in a map, except where explicitly noted that keys are **case insensitive**.

The schema exposes two types of fields: Fixed fields, which have a declared name, and Patterned fields, which declare a regex pattern for the field name.

Patterned fields MUST have unique names within the containing object. 

In order to preserve the ability to round-trip between YAML and JSON formats, YAML version [1.2](https://yaml.org/spec/1.2/spec.html) is RECOMMENDED along with some additional constraints:

- Tags MUST be limited to those allowed by the [JSON Schema ruleset](https://yaml.org/spec/1.2/spec.html#id2803231).
- Keys used in YAML maps MUST be limited to a scalar string, as defined by the [YAML Failsafe schema ruleset](https://yaml.org/spec/1.2/spec.html#id2802346).

### <a name="documentStructure"></a>Document Structure

An CVS document MUST be made up of a single document.

It is RECOMMENDED that the root CVS document be named: `cv.json` or `cv.yaml`.

### <a name="dataTypes"></a>Data Types

Primitive data types in the CVS are based on the types supported by the [JSON Schema Specification Wright Draft 00](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-wright-json-schema-00#section-4.2). 
Note that `integer` as a type is also supported and is defined as a JSON number without a fraction or exponent part. 
`null` is not supported as a type (see [`nullable`](#schemaNullable) for an alternative solution).
Models are defined using the [Schema Object](#schemaObject), which is an extended subset of JSON Schema Specification Wright Draft 00.

<a name="dataTypeFormat"></a>Primitives have an optional modifier property: `format`.
CVS uses several known formats to define in fine detail the data type being used.
However, to support documentation needs, the `format` property is an open `string`-valued property, and can have any value.
Formats such as `"email"`, `"uuid"`, and so on, MAY be used even though undefined by this specification.
Types that are not accompanied by a `format` property follow the type definition in the JSON Schema. Tools that do not recognize a specific `format` MAY default back to the `type` alone, as if the `format` is not specified.

The formats defined by the CVS are:

[`type`](#dataTypes) | [`format`](#dataTypeFormat) | Comments
------ | -------- | --------
`integer` | `int32` | signed 32 bits
`integer` | `int64` | signed 64 bits (a.k.a long)
`number` | `float` | |
`number` | `double` | |
`string` | | |
`string` | `byte` | base64 encoded characters
`string` | `binary` | any sequence of octets
`boolean` | | |
`string` | `date` | As defined by `full-date` - [RFC3339](https://xml2rfc.ietf.org/public/rfc/html/rfc3339.html#anchor14)
`string` | `date-time` | As defined by `date-time` - [RFC3339](https://xml2rfc.ietf.org/public/rfc/html/rfc3339.html#anchor14)
`string` | `password` | A hint to UIs to obscure input.


### <a name="relativeReferences"></a>Relative References in URLs

Unless specified otherwise, all properties that are URLs MAY be relative references as defined by [RFC3986](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986#section-4.2).
Relative references are resolved using the related resources URLs as a Base URI. E.g. Linkedin URL field with `name` will resolve to `https://www.linkedin.com/in/`__`name`__.

### Schema

In the following description, if a field is not explicitly **REQUIRED** or described with a MUST or SHALL, it can be considered OPTIONAL.

#### <a name="cvsObject"></a>CVS Object

This is the root document object of the [CVS document](#cvsDocument).

##### Fixed Fields

Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="cvsVersion"></a>cvs | `string` | **REQUIRED**. This string MUST be the [semantic version number](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html) of the [Curriculum Vitae Specification version](#versions) that the CVS document uses. The `cvs` field SHOULD be used by tooling specifications and clients to interpret the CVS document. This is *not* related to the Curriculum Vitae [`info.version`](#infoVersion) string.
<a name="cvsInfo"></a>info | [Info Object](#infoObject) | **REQUIRED**. Provides metadata about the Curriculum Vitae. The metadata MAY be used by tooling as required.
<a name="cvsPerson"></a>person | [Person Object](#personObject) | **REQUIRED**. Provides personal information about the applicant.
<a name="cvsContact"></a>contact | [Contact Object](#contactObject) | **REQUIRED**. Contact information about the applicant.
<a name="cvsLinks"></a>links | [Links Object](#linksObject) | Relevant links to provide better context about the applicant.
<a name="cvsEducation"></a>education | [[Education Object](#educationObject)] | Provides Education information about the applicant.
<a name="cvsWorkExperience"></a>workExperience | [[Work Experience Object](#workExperienceObject)] | List Work Experience information about the applicant.
<a name="cvsAchievements"></a>achievements | [[Achievements Object](#achievementsObject)] | List of achievement information about the applicant.

#### <a name="infoObject"></a>Info Object

The object provides metadata about the Curriculum Vitae.
The metadata MAY be used by the clients if needed, and MAY be presented in editing or documentation generation tools for convenience.

##### Fixed Fields

Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="infoVersion"></a>version | `string` | **REQUIRED**. The version of the CVS document (which is distinct from the [Curriculum Vitae Specification Version](#cvsVersion)).

##### Info Object Example

```json
"info": {
    "version": "1.0.1"
}
```

```yaml
info:
  version: 1.0.1
```

#### <a name="personObject"></a>Person Object

The object provides personal information of the applicant. All values are case sensitive.

##### Fixed Fields

Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="personFirstname"></a>firstname | `string` | **REQUIRED**. The firstname of the applicants.
<a name="personSurname"></a>surname | `string` | **REQUIRED**. The surname of the applicants.
<a name="personMiddle"></a>middle | `string` | The middle name(s) of the applicant.
<a name="personNickname"></a>preferred | `string` | A preferred name used by the applicant.

##### Person Object Example

```json
"person": {
  "firstname": "Ben",
  "surname": "Miller",
  "middle": "Andrew David",
  "preferred": "Andrew"
}
```

```yaml
person:
  firstname: "Ben"
  surname: "Miller"
  middle: "Andrew David"
  preferred: "Andrew"
```

#### <a name="contactObject"></a>Contact Object

The object provides contact information for the applicant.

##### Fixed Fields

Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="contactEmail"></a>email | [`string`] | **REQUIRED**. Contact email address(es) for the applicant. The applicant MUST include a minimum of 1 email. The order of the emails reflects importance of the email address (The first email is considered primary).
<a name="personMobile"></a>mobile | [`string`] | Contact mobile phone number(s) for the applicant. The order of the emails reflects importance of the email address (The first email is considered primary).

##### Contact Object Example

```json
"contact": {
  "email": ["ben.miller@gmail.com"],
  "mobile": ["+44000000000"]
}
```

```yaml
contact:
  email:
    - "ben.miller@gmail.com"
  mobile:
    - "+44000000000"
```

#### <a name="linksObject"></a>Links Object

The object provides links to web-presence.

##### Fixed Fields

Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="linksYoutube"></a>youtube | `string` | Reference to the applicants youtube account.
<a name="linksGithub"></a>github | `string` | Reference to the applicants Github profile.
<a name="linksLinkedIn"></a>linkedin | `string` | Reference to the applicants LinkedIn profile.
<a name="linksTwitter"></a>twitter | `string` | Reference to the applicants Twitter profile.
<a name="linksWebsite"></a>website | `string` | Reference to the applicants Website.

##### Links Object Example

```json
"links": {
  "youtube": "benmiller",
  "github": "https://www.github.com/benmiller",
  "linkedin": "benmiller",
  "twitter": "benmiller",
  "website": "http://www.benmiller.com/"
}
```

```yaml
links:
  youtube: "benmiller"
  github: "https:/www.github.com/benmiller"
  linkedin: "benmiller"
  twitter: "benmiller"
  website: "http://www.benmiller.com/"
```

#### <a name="educationObject"></a>Education Object

The object provides information on the applications educational background.

##### Fixed Fields

Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="eduSchool"></a>school | `string` | **REQUIRED** The name of the organisation.
<a name="eduType"></a>type | `string` | **REQUIRED** The type of organisation. e.g. University, High School.
<a name="eduEpoch"></a>epoch | [Epoch Object](#epochObject) | **REQUIRED** Reference to the time period of when the applicant attended this organisation.
<a name="eduCompleted"></a>completed | `boolean` | **REQUIRED** Has the applicant completed the course.
<a name="eduCourse"></a>course | `string` | Short description of the course enrolled by the applicant (if applicable).
<a name="location"></a>location | `string` | Region, country, area this organisation is based.

##### Education Object Example

```json
"education": [
	{
		"school": "Bayes Water High",
		"type": "highschool",
		"epoch": {
			"start": {
				"m": 0,
				"y": 2010
			},
			"end": {
				"m": 12, 
				"y": 2014
			},
		},
		"complete": true,
		"location": "London, UK"
	},
	{
		"school": "University of London",
		"type": "university",
		"epoch": {
			"start": {
				"m": 0, 
				"y": 2015
			},
			"end": {
				"m": 11,
				"y": 2017
			}
		},
		"complete": false,
		"course": "BSc Computer Science",
		"location": "London, UK"
	}
]
```

```yaml
education:
  - school: "Bayes Water High"
    type: "highschool"
    epoch:
      start:
        m: 0
        y: 2010
      end:
        m: 12
        y: 2014
    complete: true
    location: "London, UK"
  - school: "University of London"
    type: "university"
    epoch:
      start:
        m: 0
        y: 2015
      end:
        m: 11
        y: 2017
    complete: false
    course: "Bsc Computer Science"
    location: "London, UK"	
```

#### <a name="workExperienceObject"></a>Work Experience Object

The object provides information on the applications work experience background.

##### Fixed Fields

Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="weCompany"></a>company | `string` | **REQUIRED** The name of the organisation.
<a name="wePosition"></a>position | `string` | **REQUIRED** The title of the applicant.
<a name="eduEpoch"></a>epoch | [Epoch Object](#epochObject) | **REQUIRED** Reference to the time period of when the applicant attended this organisation.
<a name="location"></a>location | `string` | Region, country, area this organisation is based.

##### Education Object Example

```json
"workExperience": [
  {
    "company": "Securium LTD",
    "position": "Senior Ice-cream taster",
    "epoch": {
      "start": {
        "m": 4, 
        "y": 2018
      },
      "end": {
        "m": 8,
        "y": 2020
      },
    },
    "location": "London, UK"
  }
]
```

```yaml
workExperience:
  - company: "Ben & Jerry's"
    position: "Senior Ice-cream taster"
    epoch:
      start:
        m: 4
        y: 2018
      end:
        m: 8
        y: 2020
    location: "London, UK"
```

#### <a name="achievementsObject"></a>Achievements Object

The object provides information on achievements granted to the applicant.

##### Fixed Fields

Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="achName"></a>name | `string` | **REQUIRED** Name of the achievement received.
<a name="achReceived"></a>received | [Date](#dateObject) | **REQUIRED** The date the award was received.
<a name="location"></a>location | `string` | Region, country, area this award was received.

##### Achievement Object Example

```json
"achievements": [
  {
    "name": "Best taster",
    "received": {
      "d": 10,
      "m": 10,
      "y": 2019
    },
    "location": "London, UK"
  }
]
```

```yaml
achievements:
  - name: "Best taster"
    received:
      d: 10
      m: 10
      y: 2019
    location: "London, UK"
```

#### <a name="epochObject"></a>Epoch Object

Time period.

##### Fixed Fields

Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="epochStart"></a>start | [Date](#dateObject) | **REQUIRED** The beginning of the time period.
<a name="epochEnd"></a>end | [Date](#dateObject) | **REQUIRED** The end of the time period.

##### Achievement Object Example

```json
"epoch": {
  "start": {
    "m": 4, 
    "y": 2018
  },
  "end": {
    "m": 8,
    "y": 2020
  },
},
```

```yaml
epoch:
  start:
    m: 4
    y: 2018
  end:
    m: 8
    y: 2020
```

#### <a name="dateObject"></a>Date Object

Date.

##### Fixed Fields

Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="dateYear"></a>y | `number` | **REQUIRED** Year
<a name="dateMonth"></a>m | `number` | **REQUIRED** Month
<a name="dateDay"></a>d | `number` | Day


##### Achievement Object Example

```json
"start": {
  "d": "20",
  "m": 4, 
  "y": 2018
},
```

```yaml
start:
  d: 20
  m: 4
  y: 2018
```
